.TH LVS 8 "Thu May 10 2001" 
.UC 4
.SH NAME
lvs \- daemon to control the Red Hat clustering services. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lvs [-c \fIcfgfile\fP|--configfile=\fIcfgfile\fP] [-n|--nodaemon]
[--nofork] [-t|--test-start] [-?|--help] [--usage] [--version]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlvs\fR reads in the cluster configuration file \fIlvs.cf\fR, calls 
\fBipvsadm\fR to maintain the IPVS routing table, and \fBnanny\fR to perform 
monitoring services.
.sp
\fBlvs\fR is normally started by \fBpulse\fP although it can be run as a command line
tool.  Similarly, the configuration file that tells \fBlvs\fP what to do is normally
edited by \fBpiranha\fR, but it can be manually edited.
.sp
All activity from \fBlvs\fR is logged to \fBsyslog\fR (when \fBlvs\fR is
running as a daemon).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-c "cfgfile "|--configfile=" cfgfile
Normally, \fBlvs\fR uses \fIlvs.cf\fR as its configuration file, but this
can be overridden and another file can be used.
.TP
.BI "-n|--nodaemon"
Normally, \fBlvs\fR runs as a daemon, however using this option, \fBlvs\fR
runs in the foreground.  When running in this mode, all its output is sent to
\fISTDOUT\fR instead of \fBsyslog\fR.
.TP
.BI "--nofork"
Don't fork, but do perform disassociate.
.TP
.BI "-t|--test-start"
Running \fBlvs\fR is test mode allows the user to monitor what \fBlvs\fR would
actually do.  This is only useful during debugging.
.TP
.BI "-?|--help"
Shows a verbose usage listing.
.TP
.BI "--usage"
Outputs a terse argument summary.
.TP
.BI "--version"
Displays program version.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR ipvsadmn (8)
.IR lvs.cf (5)
.IR nanny (8)
.IR pulse (8)
.IR send_arp (8)

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Erik Troan <ewt@redhat.com>
.fi
