.TH PULSE 8 "Tue Sep 21 1999" 
.UC 4
.SH NAME
pulse \- heartbeating daemon for monitoring the health of cluster nodes 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BI "pulse [-c " file "|--configfile= " file "] [-n|--nodaemon]
.BI "[--forceactive] [--lvs= " path "] [--fos= " path "]"
.BI "[-v|--verbose] [-t|--test-start] [--norun]"
.BI " [-?|--help] [--usage] [--version]"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpulse\fR is a daemon used by \fBlvs\fP nodes to monitor one another's health
and to initiate the failover of the \fBlvs\fR or \fBfos\fR daemon. 
It makes use of the 
\fBlvs.cf\fR(5) configuration file for items such as length of time between
heartbeats and length of time before declaring the remote server to be dead
and initiate a failover.
.PP
\fBpulse\fR, which runs on the primary and backup nodes, is used by
each to determine that the other is still alive. If the backup node fails to
receive a heartbeat from the primary node after a set amount of time
(specified in \fBlvs.cf\fR), it will assume ownership of all virtual
service(s) being provided by the primary node. Its takeover process includes
bringing up aliased device(s) for all virtual service(s) as well as sending
out gratuitous ARPs to associate the floating IP(s) with the MAC address
of the backup node.
.PP
If and when a failed primary node returns to a functioning status, it assumes 
the backup role unless specifically forced to assume
the primary role. To reduce the number of faults seen by clients and avoid the
breaking persistent client connections, you should minimize the number of
failovers.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-c "file "|--configfile= "file
Normally, \fBpulse\fR uses \fIlvs.cf\fR as its configuration file, but 
this can be overridden and another file can be used.
.TP
.BI "-n|--nodaemon"
Normally, \fBpulse\fR runs as a daemon but with this option
runs in the foreground.  When running in this mode, \fBpulse\fR sends all
output to \fISTDOUT\fR instead of to \fBsyslog\fR.
.TP
.BI "--forceactive"
When this flag is used, the machine that \fBpulse\fP runs on will forceably
take over as the primary \fBlvs\fR router and other machine will become the
backup.
.TP
.BI "--lvs= "path
By default, \fBpulse\fR looks in /usr/sbin for \fBlvs\fR; use \fIpath\fR
to tell \fBpulse\fR to look elsewhere for the program.
.TP
.BI "--fos= "path
By default, \fBpulse\fR looks in /usr/sbin for \fBfos\fR; use \fIpath\fR
to tell \fBpulse\fR to look elsewhere for the program.
.TP
.BI "-t|--test-start"
Runs \fBpulse\fR in a test mode. Reports, but does not actually start,
the rest of the daemom processes (lvs, fos, etc.).
.TP
.BI "--norun"
Historical. Same as --test-start.
.TP
.BI "-v|--verbose"
Displays debugging information
.TP
.BI "-?|--help"
Shows a verbose usage listing.
.TP
.BI "--usage"
Outputs a terse argument summary.
.TP
.BI "--version"
Displays program version.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR lvs.cf (5),
.IR ipvsadmn (8),
.IR lvs (8).
.IR fos (8).
.IR nanny (8).

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Erik Troan <ewt@redhat.com>
.fi
